Thanks for considering contributing to tigrqc! We welcome contributions of any kind.

### Style
As much as possible please try to adhere to PEP8 conventions and try to include type hints. We use these tools to enforce these things:

    - flake8
    - isort
    - mypy
    - pylint

### Commit Conventions
We try to tag our commits with semantic tags (some of our tooling uses these tags).

Please prefix each of your commits with one of these tags:

    - [BUILD]: For build-related changes
    - [CHORE]: For small changes that don't really fit anywhere else
    - [CI]: For continuous integration related changes
    - [DEP]: For dependency changes
    - [DOC]: For documentation additions or changes
    - [ENH]: For commits that add new functionality or features or performance improvements
    - [FIX]: For bug fixes
    - [REF]: For refactoring
    - [TEST]: For changes that add or update tests

### Reporting Bugs
Please try to include these details when making a bug report:

    - Python version
    - OS type and version
    - Which version or specific commit of tigrqc you're running
    - A description of the bug (what you expected to happen and what actually happened)
    - The specific set of steps to reproduce the bug you've found

### Documentation Changes
We use [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) to generate our documentation. This means that our documentation configuration is stored in 'mkdocs.yml'. We use [mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) as our theme.

We use our repo's README.md as our 'index.md' / Home page and our API reference documentation is autogenerated at build time by the script in the 'docs' folder. Any markdown files dropped into the 'docs' folder will be automatically included as well.

You can install the extra packages required to build the documentation with:

```bash
# If using pip
pip install -e .[docs]

# If using uv
uv sync --group docs
```

While editing the documentation you can check your results locally with:

```bash
# Run from the project's root dir
mkdocs serve
```

### Dependency Changes
We use [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) to manage our project's dependencies, because it's better at creating repoducible installations than pip and comes with the added benefit of still letting users use pip if they prefer!

If you have to add / change any dependencies please use uv to do it and commit the changes it makes to pyproject.toml and uv.lock!

Some useful commands to know for this:

```bash
# Creating the initial env
uv sync
# Creating one with optional packages installed in the env
uv sync --group GROUPNAME
# Install all optional dependencies
uv sync --all-groups


# Add a new dependency
uv add <packagename>
# Add a new dependency to an optional group
uv add --group GROUPNAME <packagename>


# Update a dependency's version
uv update [<packagename>]
```
